# custom-auth-site

Project Champion - [Solliance](http://solliance.net):  The Custom Auth Site is an authentication toolkit designed to help Relativity customers.  Relativity ships with a certain set of authentication capabilities built-in to the software.  Relativity also supports single sign-on via the OpenID and SAML2 protocols.  However, sometimes customers have specialized requirements that cannot be met with any of the built-in features.

This Custom Auth Site works with Relativity's SSO feature to extend the authentication capabilities of the product.  The site is delivered as a template - on open-source project that your team can easily customize to meet the needs of your organization.

While this is an open source project on the Relativity GitHub account, support is only available through the Relativity developer community. You are welcome to use the code and solution as you see fit within the confines of the license it is released under. However, if you are looking for support or modifications to the solution, we suggest reaching out to the Project Champion listed below.

# Project Champion 
![Solliance](http://solliance.net/images/solliance-master.svg "Solliance")

[Solliance](http://solliance.net) is a major contributor to this project.  If you are interested in having modifications made to this project, please reach out to [Solliance](http://solliance.net) for an estimate. 

## Use Cases

The Custom Auth Site is designed to fill two primary authenication use cases:

__Replace the Relativity Login Form__

Some customers need the ability to completely customize the Relativity login form.  The Custom Auth Site can be used to completely replace the Relativity login process with one of your own design.  Administrators may want to write their own multi-factor login or connect to a specialized backend system for authentication..

__HTTP Request-based Login__

Some customers \need the ability to authenticate based on the content of the HTTP request.  This is a common enterprise scenario with HTTP application gateways/reverse proxies.


# Getting Started

## Hosting Requirements
- Windows Server 2008R2 or higher
- ASP.Net Core 
- IIS
- The custom auth site and Relativity must both be network-accessible to each other
- TLS must be configured for both Relativity and the IIS site

## Development Requirements
- ASP.Net Core SDK
- Your choice of editor (Visual Studio 2015 or Visual Studio Code is recommended)

## Running the Demo

This repository comes with a standalone sample of how to use the custom auth
site.  In this sample we will use a simple, standalone MVC web app instead of
Relativity.  

1) Clone the repo and open the custom-auth-site.sln solution in the root folder

2) Build and run both the Client and Host projects  You should see a console
window for the host project with an indicator: "Now listening on:
http://localhost:5000".  Your browser should open to the Client MVC website,
which will show that you are not logged in.

3) Click the Login button on the MVC site.  You will be redirected to a login
form hosted by the Host (custom auth site) project.

4) Enter a value for username and password.  The demo site is configured to
verify that the username and password are the same value.  If both inputs are
the same, the custom auth site considers the user authenticated.

5) Upon authenticating successfully, you will be directed back to the MVC
site.  You should now see a list of user claims, which indicates that you are
successfully authenticated.

6) You can click the logout button at any time and restart the process.

Now that you have a working custom auth site, you can customize the login
process to meet your organization's auth requirements and perform local
testing outside of Relativity.  Once you are done, the custom auth site can be
deployed to a Relativity server and connected to your Relativity instance.

# Architecture Overview

The Custom Auth Site acts as an external identity provider to the main Relativity application.  The site communicates via the OpenID Connect protocol, which Relativity supports for SSO.

OpenID Connect is a secure authentication protocol that relies on certificates and securely-signed tokens that are passed from the custom auth site to Relativity.  You can learn more about the OpenID Connect protocol here:

<http://openid.net/connect/>

In a typical customer setup, the custom auth site will be installed alongside Relativity within the same instance of Relativity.  The auth site lives in a separate IIS application pool.  Once the site has been deployed to IIS, it is configured to talk with the Relativity instance.  There are configuration settings required in both Relativity and the custom site so that both applications know about each other and can communicatge securely.

TODO:  Diagram

Under the covers, both Relativity and the custom auth site use the Identity Server open-source project.  Identity Server is a well-known authentication and secure token service product from the .NET community.  The custom auth site solution essentially consists of two secure token services talking to each other - one acting as a relying party (Relativity) and the other acting as an external identity provider (the custom auth site).

Customers who want to udnerstand more about Identity Server and how the custom auth site communicates with Relativity can learn more about Identity Server at the following link:

<https://github.com/IdentityServer>

# Configuration and Setup

These instructions describe how to get the custom auth site running and communicating with Relativity.  These steps are broken into three main areas:  Configuring IIS, Configuring Relativity, and Configuring the Custom Auth Site.

## Choosing a Claim Type

In order for the custom auth site to work, a unique string value must be
chosen for each user in Relativity.  When the custom auth site authenticates 
a user, a secure token with a subject claim will be generated for the user.  
The subejct claim will contain this unqiue value  The subject claim will be 
matched against one of the users in Relativity during the login process.  If the
subject matches a Relativity user's Login Method, then the user will be
authenticated.

It is best to pick an existing value from your backoffice system as the
subject claim.  The exact choice of subject claim will depend on the values
your custom auth site has access to:  it could be the user's e-mail address or
possibly a security identifier known to your backend system.  Choose the most
convenient value based on what is available within your network.


## Windows Server Setup

The recommended way to host the custom auth site is within IIS.  You can
install the custom auth site in a separate IIS application within the same
website as Relativity.  For the typical customer, each web server should have
a copy of the custom auth site installed.

### .NET Core

The site is built using .NET Core, which is Microsoft's next-gen version of the .NET Framework.  Relativity runs on .NET 4.6.1 (as of Q1 2017).  Both of these frameworks can be installed side-by-side without interfering with one another.

.NET Core can be downloaded from Microsoft:

<https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core>

### ASP.Net IIS Hosting Bundle

.NET Core applications can easily be hosted in IIS, but the configuration is a little different from traditional ASP.NET applications.  ASP.NET Core requires a hosting bundle to be installed on the server.  This hosting bundle installs a new HttpModule into IIS that will allow you to host the custom auth site properly.

The hosting bundle can be downloaded from Microsoft:

<https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/core>

### IIS Configuration

Once the framework and hosting bundle have been installed, you will need to create an IIS application with the custom site code.  These instructions assume a general understanding of IIS administration.  Here is the general procedure:

1) Download the repository from GitHub.

2) Generate a binary release for the custom auth site.  Within Visual Studio
you can do this by opening the custom auth site solution file; creating a publish profile
to publish files to disk; and running the publish command from within Visual
Studio.  This will generate a set of files that can be deployed to the IIS
application root on the web server (which we will create later in these
instructions).
 
3) Create a new Application Pool named "AspNetCore".  For the .NET Framework
setting choose "No managed code."  For now we will leave the Application Pool to run under the ApplicationPoolIdentiy virtual user.

4) Create a folder to hold all of the custom auth site web files.  This will be the web root directory.  Copy the files from Step 2 into this folder.

5) Create a new IIS application within the same website as Relativity.  You can name the application however you like.  For the purposes of this guide we will assume the application is called "custom_auth_site".  Choose the AspNetCore application pool when creating this application.

6) Ensure the directory you created in step 2 has appropriate ACLs.  In particular, verify that the "AppPool\AspNetCore" virtual user has read permissions to the site.


### Certificate Management

The custom auth site requires an X.509 certificate in order to generate
security tokens.  The certificate can be self-signed - it does not have to 
come from a trusted certificate authority such as Verisign.  You should not
have to pay for this certificate.

The GitHub repo includes a testing cert called idsvrtest.pfx.  This
certificate is sufficient to get started with your initial testing.  Take the
following steps to configure the certificate:

1) Move the idsvrtest.pfx to another folder on the web server (do not leave it
in the web root).  Grant appropriate IIS ACLs to the target cert folder.
2) Open the appsettings.json file in the website root
3) Remove the "CertificateStoreSubjectDistinguishedName" setting
4) Uncomment the CertificateFileName and CertificatePassword settings; update
the file paths to point at the new certificate location.

*IMPORTANT NOTE:*  The testing certificate should not be used in production
scenarios.  See the "Certificates" section below for more guidance on setting
up a production certificate.


### Logging

The custom auth site has built-in logging which is very useful for
troubleshooting your connection to Relativity.  The custom auth 
site logs to disk by default.  Edit the appsettings.json file
in the website root and change the "logging.fileName" property to 
point at a location that makes sense for your environment.  Also make sure
that the AppPool\AspNetCore user has write permissions to the logging folder.


### Testing the IIS Setup

You can verify that IIS and your new application is set up correctly by
hitting the following URL (replacing the example hostname and application
directory with your own):

<https://example.com/custom-auth-site/.well-known/openid-configuration>

If everything is working, you should see the OpenID Connect discovery
endpoint, which is a JSON document with information about the OIDC endpoint.
If there is a problem, you will receive a server error.  For development and
testing purposes, you can turn on verbose error pages.

1) Navigate to the application in IIS Manager amd highlight the custom auth site
2) Open the IIS Configuration Editor
3) Select the "system.webServer/aspNetCore" section at the top
4) Modify the environmentVariables row and add an environemnt variable with
the name "ASPNETCORE_ENVIRONMENT" and a value of "Development".

Recycle the Relativity website in IIS after changing the environment
variables.  Be sure to disable this environment variable in a production
setting.


## Relativity Configuration

Now that the custom auth site is hosted in IIS, we need to configure
Relativity to trust it as an external identity provider.  To do this, we will
enter the custom auth site as a standard OpenID Connect Authentication
Provider.  You can find instructions on how to do this at the following URL:

<https://help.kcura.com/9.5/Content/Relativity/Authentication/Authentication.htm>

Some settings that apply to the custom auth site specifically:

- OAuth2 Flow should be set to Implicit

- The ClientId should be set to "Relativity" (this is defined in the
appsettings.json file and can be customized if desired)

- Authority URL should be set to the base URL of the IIS application you
created for the custom auth site

- Site URL should be the base URL for your Relativity instance.  Use the URL
your browser clients will use to access Relativity, not a private server name
or IP address.

- Login Screen Button Text should be set to some friendly text to display to
the user.

After saving the Authentication Provider, the screen will display a Redirect
URL that is generated by Relativity.  Copy this URL and save it for an
upcoming step.

_IMPORTANT NOTE:  After creating or changing an OpenID Connect authentication
provider in Relativity, you must recycle IIS in order for the changes to take
effect._

After the Authentication Provider is configured, you can add a Login Method to
your users for the new provider.  It is a good idea to start with a single
test user.  Navigate to that user in Relativity and create a login method for
the new authentication provider.  Instructions for managing login methods can
be found here:

https://help.kcura.com/9.5/Content/Relativity/Authentication/Managing_users_authentication_methods.htm

The value of the Login Method should be the unique subject claim you selected
earlier in the process.  So if your subject is based on e-mail address and the
user is named Bob, you would enter bob@example.com when creating the Login
method.


## Custom Auth Site Configuration

To connect the custom auth site to Relativity, you must update two values
within the appsettings.json file within the
"relativityAuthenticationBridgeOptions" section"

- RelativityRedirectUris should be set to the redirect URI that was saved from
the Authentication Provider setup above

- RelativityPostLogoutRedirectUris should be set to the root URL for your
Relativity instance

Note that both values must be entered as JSON arrays.

_IMPORTANT NOTE:  Once you have updated the appsettings.json file, restart the
website in IIS_

## Testing the Full Integration

Navigate to the Relativity website.  The login form will be displayed, and you
should see a new button that represents the custom auth site.  Click on the
button.

You should now be redirected to the custom auth site.  Enter the appropriate
credentials for your test user.  If you are using the built-in demo site,
simply enter the expected subject value into both the username and password
fields.

Once you have authenticated, you will be redirected back to Relativity.  If
the subject matched prperly to a user, you should now be logged in as that
user.

## Troubleshooting

If the integration doesn't work as expected, here are some areas to look at:

- Turn on the ASP.NET Core Development environment variable

- Check the error logs in Relativity and the log file for the custom auth
site.  The custom auth log file location can be found in appsettings.json

- Make sure to restart the website or IIS after changing appsettings.json
or updating the Authentication Provider in Relativity

- Verify the ACLs on the web folder, log directory, and certificate


# Customizing the Solution

Every customer who uses the custom auth site should modify the code to meet
the needs of the target environment.  Developers should browse the source code
and familiarize themselves with the entire solution.

Developers will focus their attention on different parts of the code,
depending on the type of authentication scheme desired.

## Login Form Customization

If you are creating your own interactive login form, you will want to focus
your customizations on the Controllers and Views folders.  The custom auth
site acts as a standard ASP.Net Core MVC website.  You can write views and
controllers to display whatever UI you desire to the end user.  The sample
login form that comes with the repo should give you a starting place for
learning and building a custom login form.

Developers can learn more about ASP.Net Core and MVC at the following link:

<https://www.asp.net/core>


## HTTP Request Customization

If you want to authenticate users based on the HTTP request, there are two
steps to take.

First, delete the Controllers\Account and Views\Account folders - you will not
need them since there will be no login form.

Next, look in the Startup.cs file and the ConfigureServices method.  In there
you will see commented-out code that demonstrates how to authenticate the user
based on an HTTP header.

The RelativityAuthenticationBridgeOptions.HttpLoginCallback property allows
you to define a delegate that gets called for each HTTP request.  Within this
delegate you can inspect the HTTP request, e.g. all of the headers, the
request URL, source IP address, etc.  In this delegate you should write your
custom logic to validate the user.


# Additional Considerations

Once you have the custom auth site hosted in IIS and customize to your needs,
there are some additional things to consider before going into production.

## TLS

The OpenID Connect system requires TLS (SSL) in order to be secure.  This is
because sensitive information is exchanged between Relativity, the custom auth
site, and the browser.  Administrators are encouraged to make sure their
Relativity environments are secured via TLS - even if those environments are
not directly exposed to the internet.

## Certificate Management

As covered previously, the custom auth site requires an X.509 certificate for
signing tokens.  In an production scenario the recommendation is to store that
certificate in the web server's certificate store, which is the standard
location for certificates on the Windows OS.

The custom auth site can be customized to look for a certificate in the
machine store.  Add a new setting to appsettings.json called 
"relativityAuthenticationBridgeOptions.CertificateStoreThumbnail" and set the
value to the thumbprint of the certificate you want to use.  The custom auth
site will automatically look in the Machine Store / Personal Store for a
matching certificate.

Self-signed certificates can be easily generated using OpenSSL or PowerShell.
There are many tutorials on the web that describe how to generate self-signed
certificates using these tools.

Use the Certificates MMC snap-in to install the certificate into the Machine
Store under the Personal folder.  Two critical configuration steps include:

- Mark the private key as exportable when installing the cert into the
machine store

- Set the ACLs on the certificate private key so the AppPool\AspNetCore
virtual user can read the private key

## Logging

The custom auth site uses the Serilog logging library.  This library is
well-known in the .NET community and is highly-configurable.  The default
logging setup is to log to the console as well as a log file.  You can
customize the logging by modifying the
Configuration\ServiceCollectionExtensions.cs file in the Host solution.

You can refer to the Serilog website for more information on how to configure
Serilog:

<https://github.com/serilog/serilog>


## Clean Up Relativity Login Methods

Once you have the custom auth site working, you probably want your Relativity
users to only log in using the new site.  You can remove other login methods
from user accounts or disable entire classes of login such as passwords.

To disable login methods for individual users, go to the Login Methods list
for the user and remove all methods except the method for the custom auth
site.  To completely disable a particular type of authentication (i.e.
password), go to the appropriate Authentication Provider and remove that
provider.


## Home Realm Discovery Hint

By default, Relativity will always shows the main login page with a button
pointing to your custom auth site.  Users must click the button in order to be
redirected.

If you would like users to be automatically redirected to your custom auth
site, you can include a Home Realm Discovery hint in any links or bookmarks to
Relativity.  If a link to Relativity contains the appropriate HRD hint in the query string,
Relativity will automatically forward the user to the custom auth site without
showing the Relativity login page.

You can learn more about HRD hints at the following URL:

<https://help.kcura.com/9.5/Content/Relativity/Authentication/Federated_instances.htm>

## IIS Configuration

This guide describes the general procedure for configuring an ASP.Net Core
applciation.  Administrators should customize and secure the IIS setup for their particular
environment.  Always follow your organization's best practices for IIS website configuration and
security.
